CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Calendar Card Pro

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Calendar Card Pro! This document outlines the process for contributing to the project, including code changes, translations, and bug reports.

## Understanding the Codebase

Before contributing code, I strongly recommend reviewing my [architecture documentation](./docs/architecture.md), which explains:

- Module organization and responsibilities
- Data flow and event handling
- Performance optimization techniques
- Design principles and patterns

## Development Environment Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork: `git clone https://github.com/[your-username]/calendar-card-pro.git`
3. Install dependencies: `npm install`
4. Start development mode: `npm run dev`
5. The compiled card will be available in `dist/calendar-card-pro.js`
6. For testing in Home Assistant, follow the [testing instructions](#testing-in-home-assistant)

## Branch Structure

The repository follows this branch structure:

- **`main`**: Production-ready code, each release is tagged
- **`dev`**: Ongoing development branch where features are integrated
- **Feature branches**: Individual features/fixes (branch from `dev`, merge back to `dev` via PRs)

### Workflow

1. Create feature branches from `dev` for new features or bug fixes
2. Develop and test your changes in the feature branch
3. Submit a PR to merge your feature branch into `dev`
4. After review and testing, changes in `dev` are periodically merged into `main` for releases

## Testing in Home Assistant

To test your changes in a real Home Assistant environment:

1. Copy `dist/calendar-card-pro-dev.js` to your Home Assistant's `www/community/calendar-card-pro/` folder
2. Add the resource to Home Assistant:
   ```yaml
   url: /hacsfiles/calendar-card-pro/calendar-card-pro-dev.js
   type: module
   ```
3. Add the card to your dashboard using type: `custom:calendar-card-pro-dev`
4. Test with various calendar types and configurations
5. Verify performance with both small and large event sets

> **💡 Pro Tip: Defeating Home Assistant's Aggressive Caching**
>
> Home Assistant aggressively caches resources, and sometimes your changes won't appear even after clearing browser cache or restarting Home Assistant. To solve this:
>
> 1. Add a version query parameter to your resource URL:
>    ```yaml
>    url: /hacsfiles/calendar-card-pro/calendar-card-pro-dev.js?v=1
>    type: module
>    ```
> 2. Each time you update the file and want to test new changes, increment the version number:
>    ```yaml
>    url: /hacsfiles/calendar-card-pro/calendar-card-pro-dev.js?v=2
>    type: module
>    ```

> **Note:** The build system automatically generates different filenames depending on the build mode:
>
> - Development build (`npm run dev`): Creates `calendar-card-pro-dev.js`
> - Production build (`npm run build`): Creates `calendar-card-pro.js`
>
> This naming convention allows both development and production versions to coexist in the same Home Assistant directory, making it easier to test changes alongside the stable version installed via HACS. The Home Assistant card element name also includes the `-dev` suffix in development mode, ensuring there's no conflict between versions.

## Adding New Translations

Calendar Card Pro supports multiple languages through JSON translation files. Here's how to add a new language:

### Method 1: Contributing a Language File to the Repository

1. **Create a new file** in `src/translations/languages/[lang-code].json`
2. **Copy the structure** from an existing language file.
3. **Update the localize file** in `src/translations/localize.ts`
4. **Translate all strings** to your language.
5. **Submit a Pull Request** with your changes.

Example language file structure:

```json
{
  "daysOfWeek": ["Sun", "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu", "Fri", "Sat"],
  "fullDaysOfWeek": ["Sunday", "Monday", "Tuesday", "Wednesday", "Thursday", "Friday", "Saturday"],
  "months": ["Jan", "Feb", "Mar", "Apr", "May", "Jun", "Jul", "Aug", "Sep", "Oct", "Nov", "Dec"],
  "allDay": "all-day",
  "multiDay": "until",
  "at": "at",
  "endsToday": "ends today",
  "endsTomorrow": "ends tomorrow",
  "noEvents": "No upcoming events",
  "loading": "Loading calendar events...",
  "error": "Error: Calendar entity not found or improperly configured"
}
```

### Method 2: Testing Translations During Development

For quickly testing a language without modifying the source code, you can use the dynamic translation registration API:

1. Create a script file in Home Assistant (e.g., `/config/www/calendar-translation-dev.js`):

```javascript
// Development helper for testing new translations
window.addEventListener('load', () => {
  setTimeout(() => {
    if (window.CalendarCardProLocalize) {
      // Register test translation
      window.CalendarCardProLocalize.addTranslations('test', {
        daysOfWeek: ['Sun', 'Mon', 'Tue', 'Wed', 'Thu', 'Fri', 'Sat'],
        fullDaysOfWeek: [
          'Sunday',
          'Monday',
          'Tuesday',
          'Wednesday',
          'Thursday',
          'Friday',
          'Saturday',
        ],
        months: [
          'Jan',
          'Feb',
          'Mar',
          'Apr',
          'May',
          'Jun',
          'Jul',
          'Aug',
          'Sep',
          'Oct',
          'Nov',
          'Dec',
        ],
        allDay: 'TEST all-day',
        multiDay: 'TEST until',
        at: 'TEST at',
        endsToday: 'TEST ends today',
        endsTomorrow: 'TEST ends tomorrow',
        noEvents: 'TEST No upcoming events',
        loading: 'TEST Loading calendar events...',
        error: 'TEST Error: Calendar entity not found or improperly configured',
      });
      console.log('Test language registered for Calendar Card Pro!');
    }
  }, 2000);
});
```

2. Add this script as a resource in Home Assistant
3. Set `language: 'test'` in your card configuration to test the translation

> Note: This method is primarily intended for development and testing. For permanent language additions, please contribute directly to the repository via pull request.

## Code Style and Quality Standards

- Follow TypeScript best practices and maintain strict typing
- Use the established module structure - place new code in the appropriate module
- Follow the existing patterns for similar functionality
- Document all public functions with JSDoc comments
- Run linting before submitting: `npm run lint --fix`
- Keep bundle size in mind - avoid large dependencies

## Pull Request Process

1. Create a feature branch from your fork (`feature/my-new-feature`)
2. Make your changes following our code style guidelines
3. Ensure all linting passes (`npm run lint`)
4. Build and test your changes (`npm run build`)
5. Submit a PR against the `main` branch
6. Respond to any feedback during code review

## Bug Reports

When filing a bug report, please include:

1. A clear description of the issue
2. Steps to reproduce the problem
3. Expected behavior
4. Actual behavior
5. Version of Calendar Card Pro and Home Assistant
6. Browser and OS information
7. Screenshots if applicable

Thank you for contributing to Calendar Card Pro!

Commit message:

docs: update contribution instructions to include dayjs.ts file

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Calendar Card Pro

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Calendar Card Pro! This document outlines the process for contributing to the project, including code changes, translations, and bug reports.

## Understanding the Codebase

Before contributing code, I strongly recommend reviewing my [architecture documentation](./docs/architecture.md), which explains:

- Module organization and responsibilities
- Data flow and event handling
- Performance optimization techniques
- Design principles and patterns

## Development Environment Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork: `git clone https://github.com/[your-username]/calendar-card-pro.git`
3. Install dependencies: `npm install`
4. Start development mode: `npm run dev`
5. The compiled card will be available in `dist/calendar-card-pro.js`
6. For testing in Home Assistant, follow the [testing instructions](#testing-in-home-assistant)

## Branch Structure

The repository follows this branch structure:

- **`main`**: Production-ready code, each release is tagged
- **`dev`**: Ongoing development branch where features are integrated
- **Feature branches**: Individual features/fixes (branch from `dev`, merge back to `dev` via PRs)

### Workflow

1. Create feature branches from `dev` for new features or bug fixes
2. Develop and test your changes in the feature branch
3. Submit a PR to merge your feature branch into `dev`
4. After review and testing, changes in `dev` are periodically merged into `main` for releases

## Testing in Home Assistant

To test your changes in a real Home Assistant environment:

1. Copy `dist/calendar-card-pro-dev.js` to your Home Assistant's `www/community/calendar-card-pro/` folder
2. Add the resource to Home Assistant:
   ```yaml
   url: /hacsfiles/calendar-card-pro/calendar-card-pro-dev.js
   type: module
   ```
3. Add the card to your dashboard using type: `custom:calendar-card-pro-dev`
4. Test with various calendar types and configurations
5. Verify performance with both small and large event sets

> **💡 Pro Tip: Defeating Home Assistant's Aggressive Caching**
>
> Home Assistant aggressively caches resources, and sometimes your changes won't appear even after clearing browser cache or restarting Home Assistant. To solve this:
>
> 1. Add a version query parameter to your resource URL:
>    ```yaml
>    url: /hacsfiles/calendar-card-pro/calendar-card-pro-dev.js?v=1
>    type: module
>    ```
> 2. Each time you update the file and want to test new changes, increment the version number:
>    ```yaml
>    url: /hacsfiles/calendar-card-pro/calendar-card-pro-dev.js?v=2
>    type: module
>    ```

> **Note:** The build system automatically generates different filenames depending on the build mode:
>
> - Development build (`npm run dev`): Creates `calendar-card-pro-dev.js`
> - Production build (`npm run build`): Creates `calendar-card-pro.js`
>
> This naming convention allows both development and production versions to coexist in the same Home Assistant directory, making it easier to test changes alongside the stable version installed via HACS. The Home Assistant card element name also includes the `-dev` suffix in development mode, ensuring there's no conflict between versions.

## Adding New Translations

Calendar Card Pro supports multiple languages through JSON translation files. Here's how to add a new language:

### Method 1: Contributing a Language File to the Repository

1. **Create a new file** in `src/translations/languages/[lang-code].json`
2. **Copy the structure** from an existing language file (e.g., `en.json`)
3. **Update the localize file** in `src/translations/localize.ts` to include your new language
4. **Update the dayjs file** in `src/translations/dayjs.ts` to include your new language
5. **Translate all strings** to your language
6. **Submit a Pull Request** with your changes

Example language file structure:

```json
{
  "daysOfWeek": ["Sun", "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu", "Fri", "Sat"],
  "fullDaysOfWeek": ["Sunday", "Monday", "Tuesday", "Wednesday", "Thursday", "Friday", "Saturday"],
  "months": ["Jan", "Feb", "Mar", "Apr", "May", "Jun", "Jul", "Aug", "Sep", "Oct", "Nov", "Dec"],
  "allDay": "all-day",
  "multiDay": "until",
  "at": "at",
  "endsToday": "ends today",
  "endsTomorrow": "ends tomorrow",
  "noEvents": "No upcoming events",
  "loading": "Loading calendar events...",
  "error": "Error: Calendar entity not found or improperly configured"
}
```

### Method 2: Testing Translations During Development

For quickly testing a language without modifying the source code, you can use the dynamic translation registration API:

1. Create a script file in Home Assistant (e.g., `/config/www/calendar-translation-dev.js`):

```javascript
// Development helper for testing new translations
window.addEventListener('load', () => {
  setTimeout(() => {
    if (window.CalendarCardProLocalize) {
      // Register test translation
      window.CalendarCardProLocalize.addTranslations('test', {
        daysOfWeek: ['Sun', 'Mon', 'Tue', 'Wed', 'Thu', 'Fri', 'Sat'],
        fullDaysOfWeek: [
          'Sunday',
          'Monday',
          'Tuesday',
          'Wednesday',
          'Thursday',
          'Friday',
          'Saturday',
        ],
        months: [
          'Jan',
          'Feb',
          'Mar',
          'Apr',
          'May',
          'Jun',
          'Jul',
          'Aug',
          'Sep',
          'Oct',
          'Nov',
          'Dec',
        ],
        allDay: 'TEST all-day',
        multiDay: 'TEST until',
        at: 'TEST at',
        endsToday: 'TEST ends today',
        endsTomorrow: 'TEST ends tomorrow',
        noEvents: 'TEST No upcoming events',
        loading: 'TEST Loading calendar events...',
        error: 'TEST Error: Calendar entity not found or improperly configured',
      });
      console.log('Test language registered for Calendar Card Pro!');
    }
  }, 2000);
});
```

2. Add this script as a resource in Home Assistant
3. Set `language: 'test'` in your card configuration to test the translation

> Note: This method is primarily intended for development and testing. For permanent language additions, please contribute directly to the repository via pull request.

## Code Style and Quality Standards

- Follow TypeScript best practices and maintain strict typing
- Use the established module structure - place new code in the appropriate module
- Follow the existing patterns for similar functionality
- Document all public functions with JSDoc comments
- Run linting before submitting: `npm run lint --fix`
- Keep bundle size in mind - avoid large dependencies

## Pull Request Process

1. Create a feature branch from your fork (`feature/my-new-feature`)
2. Make your changes following our code style guidelines
3. Ensure all linting passes (`npm run lint`)
4. Build and test your changes (`npm run build`)
5. Submit a PR against the `main` branch
6. Respond to any feedback during code review

## Bug Reports

When filing a bug report, please include:

1. A clear description of the issue
2. Steps to reproduce the problem
3. Expected behavior
4. Actual behavior
5. Version of Calendar Card Pro and Home Assistant
6. Browser and OS information
7. Screenshots if applicable

Thank you for contributing to Calendar Card Pro!
